This version of dungeon has the unique history of having been
ported from the vax to the pc, and then from the pc to linux.
Along the way, several things that had been lost to the vax
version were replaced, making this version more faithful to
the original code distributed over the arpanet during the late
70s.  This version still contains the Infocom copyright notices
in the source files -- notices which allow non-commercial use
of the resulting program.  This version also contains data
structures which are initialized with radix-50 text strings --
an indication of its DEC heritage.  It is in fact highly
obfuscated throughout, and is difficult to understand at
first inspection.  The executable files have been collected
separately from the source code for those who simply want to
play the game and are not interested in the source code.  If
you are among the 'players-only' group, you can skip the next
section.

SOURCE CODE:
Dungeon is written in fortran, and any updates to it have been
implemented in the original fortran sources.  The fortran sources
are subsequently converted to C with the f2c utility, and then
turned into an executable with the gcc compiler. There are some
twists to this, in that a successful collection by the loader
can only be achieved if object files containing initialized
common blocks (block data programs) are collected first.  The
script file called "collect" illustrates one way to successfully
create dungeon, although a standard Makefile is included and
should work with most make implementations.

(The Gnu g77 compiler is presently not able to compile all of
the source files.)

The steps for creating dungeon and its data base are as follows:

(1) Type "make" or run the script file called collect, and (2) run
the executable called textcnv.  The latter program will read the ascii
data base file called TEXTDATA.DAT and will create the binary data base
file used by the game called DTEXT.DAT.  Unless TEXTDATA.DAT is
edited for some reason, step (2) will never have to be repeated,
and the game can be run by simply typing 'dungeon'.

EXECUTABLE CODE:
Because linux has a habit of changing dynamic libraries from
time to time, the executable is provided in two flavors:

	dungeon.s -- static version which needs no
		     external libraries

	dungeon   -- standard version which loads
		     its library routines at runtime

If the second (small) version works for you, then your libraries
are compatible with it, and you can get rid of the large version.
If dungeon fails to execute properly, then dungeon.s should be
used in its place.

Dungeon requires two other files which contain its data base.
These are named DINDX.DAT and DTEXT.DAT, and should be named
exactly as shown (in upper case).  Otherwise, dungeon will complain
about their absence and will refuse to execute.  Dungeon only
searches the current directory for these two files, so you'll
need to make whatever adjustments are necessary if you want to
locate the data base files elsewhere (usually, a symbolic link
in the current directory is used to point to them).

You will also find two files named hints.txt and endhints.txt in
the distribution.  These files contain the solution to the game
for those who find themselves unable or unwilling to solve the
puzzles by themselves.

In summary:  To run the game, install dungeon or dungeon.s some-
where in your path.  Place the files named DINDX.DAT and DTEXT.DAT
in your default directory, or else create two symbolic links of
the same name which point to the actual file locations.  When you
save the game, a third file named DSAVE.DAT will be created in
the default directory.
